#Ownership
Set of rules that govern how a Rust program manages memory.
Some languages have garbage collection that regularly looks for no-longer-used memory as the program runs; in other languages, the programmer must explicitly allocate and free the memory. Rust uses a third approach: Memory is managed through a system of ownership with a set of rules that the compiler checks. If any of the rules are violated, the program won’t compile. None of the features of ownership will slow down your program while it’s running.

##Ownership Rules
1. Each value in Rust has a n owner.
2. There can only be one owner at a time.
3. When the owner goes out of scope, the value will be dropped.

##Variable Scope
Same as other programming languages.

##The String Type
A great way to explain how data is stored on heap on Rust. The data types that we learned about earlier are simple and trivial. They are stored on stack and popped off stack when their scope is over.

String literal is immutable and thus not convenient. But yes string literal can also be made mutable as:

    let mut s = String::from("hello");

    s.push_str(", world!"); // push_str() appends a literal to a String

    println!("{s}"); // this will print `hello, world!`


##Memory and Allocation
In the case of a string literal, we know the contents at compile time, so the text is hardcoded directly into the final executable. This is why string literals are fast and efficient. But these properties only come from the string literal’s immutability. Unfortunately, we can’t put a blob of memory into the binary for each piece of text whose size is unknown at compile time and whose size might change while running the program.

With the String type, in order to support a mutable, growable piece of text, we need to allocate an amount of memory on the heap, unknown at compile time, to hold the contents. This means:

1. The memory must be requested from the memory allocator at runtime.
2. We need a way of returning this memory to the allocator when we’re done with our String.

That first part is done by us: When we call String::from, its implementation requests the memory it needs. This is pretty much universal in programming languages.

However, the second part is different. In languages with a garbage collector (GC), the GC keeps track of and cleans up memory that isn’t being used anymore, and we don’t need to think about it. In most languages without a GC, it’s our responsibility to identify when memory is no longer being used and to call code to explicitly free it, just as we did to request it. Doing this correctly has historically been a difficult programming problem. If we forget, we’ll waste memory. If we do it too early, we’ll have an invalid variable. If we do it twice, that’s a bug too. We need to pair exactly one allocate with exactly one free.

Rust takes a different path: The memory is automatically returned once the variable that owns it goes out of scope.

There is a natural point at which we can return the memory our String needs to the allocator: when s goes out of scope. When a variable goes out of scope, Rust calls a special function for us. This function is called drop, and it’s where the author of String can put the code to return the memory. Rust calls drop automatically at the closing curly bracket.

    let x = 5;
    let y = x;
We can probably guess what this is doing: “Bind the value 5 to x; then, make a copy of the value in x and bind it to y.” We now have two variables, x and y, and both equal 5. This is indeed what is happening, because integers are simple values with a known, fixed size, and these two 5 values are pushed onto the stack.

    let s1 = String::from("hello");
    let s2 = s1;
This looks very similar, so we might assume that the way it works would be the same: That is, the second line would make a copy of the value in s1 and bind it to s2. But this isn’t quite what happens.

A String is made up of three parts: a pointer to the memory that holds the contents of the string, a length, and a capacity. This group of data is stored on the stack. On the right is the memory on the heap that holds the contents.

